Hi everyone, I am Peya Mowar, and I am
presenting our work “Tab to Autocomplete:
The Effects of AI Coding
Assistants on Web Accessibility”.
There are many efforts like guidelines, training,
and tools designed to promote web
accessibility among developers. However,
getting them to produce the accessible
(web) UI code still remains a challenge.
This is because the success of these efforts
ultimately depends on developers' conscious
efforts to engage with them i.e., they require
developers to still care about accessibility.
And so while accessibility developer tools are
rarely adopted; today, developers are frequently
adopting AI coding assistants, that represent
a significant breakthrough in programming.
The workflow of AI-assisted development today
looks somewhat like this: Developers use these
assistants to produce UI code, which is rendered
as a web UI and accessed by different users.
And so we might presume that since these
developers are using AI assistants,
if those assistants started
producing accessible code,
then the UIs that developers would
create would be more accessible.
Several aspects of this line
of reasoning have been unclear.
First, it is unclear whether these AI
coding assistants can produce accessible
code and have been trained to do so.
Secondly, we also don't know the developer
accessibility expertise required to
effectively use these assistants.
To investigate these issues, we ran a
study in which 16 developers untrained
in accessibility were tasked with building
web components with an AI coding assistant.
The use of AI coding assistants has shown mixed
results in resolving some common accessibility
issues such as adding alternative text or
maintaining appropriate colour contrast.
We observed that AI coding assistants
can actually produce accessible code,
but developers still need accessibility
expertise to make use of them effectively.
These results suggest that future work could
usefully engage with how to make AI coding
assistants better at producing accessible code
and how to reduce the developer awareness and
expertise required to benefit from
the accessibility coding assistance.
Please check out our paper for more details
and insights. Thank you for listening!